Other enhancements include dynamic regular expressions, with text substitution
and pattern-matching functions; additional built-in functions and variables;
some new operators and statements; input from multiple files; and access to
command-line arguments. Error messages have also been improved. The examp-
ples in Chapter 1 use only facilities of the original version; many examples in
later chapters take advantages  of new features.
   This version of awk is part of Unix System V Release 3.1. Source code for
this version is also available through AT&T's Unix System Toolchest software
distribution system; call 1-201-5222-6900 and log in as guest. In Europe, con-
tact AT&T Unix Europe in London (44-1-567-7711); in the Far East, contact
AT&T Unix Pacific in Tokyo (81-3-431-3670).
   Since awk was developed under Unix, some of its features reflect capabilities
usually found only there; these features are used in some of our examples.
Furthermore, we have assumed the existence of some Unix utilities, particularly
sort, for which exact equivalents may not exist elsewhere. Aside from these
limitations, however, awk should be useful in any environment; in particular, it
runs on MS-DOS. Further information is available from Addison-Wesley.
   Awk is certainly not perfect; it has its share of irregularities, omissions, and
just plain bad ideas, and it's sometimes painfully slow. But it's also a rich and
versatile language, useful in a remarkable number of cases. We hope you'll find
it as valuable as we do.

Acknowledgements

   We are deeply indebted to friends who made comments and suggestions on
drafts of this book. We are particularly grateful to Jon Bentley, whose
enthusiasm has been an inspiration for years, Jon contributed many ideas and
programs derived form his experience using and teaching awk; he also read
several drafts with great care. Doug McIlroy also deserves special recognition;
his peerless talent as a reader greatly improved the structure and content of the
whole book. Others who made helpful comments on the manuscript include
Susan Aho, Jaap Akkerhuis, Lorinda Cherry, CHris Fraser, Eric Grosse, Ric-
cardo Gusella, Bob Herbst, Mark Kernighan, John Linderman, Bob Martin,
Howard Moscovitz, Gerard Schmitt, Don Swartwout, Howard Trickey, Peter
van Eijk, Chris Van Wyk, and Mihalis Yannakakis. We thank them all.

                                              Alfred V. Aho
                                              Brian W. Kernighan
                                              Peter J. Weinberger
